# CIA-Triad-Oriented Security Architecture for Mission Critical IoT Environments: A Bank Monitoring Case Study.

IoT technologies are widely adopted in various areas such as industries, healthcare, smart homes, smart cities, transportation among others and are used in monitoring, security, management or automating some operations in these areas. The CIA triad also features in these environments, to secure the data that flows in and out of these sectors and that it is kept private to only authorized users, the data is not tampered with and that it is available for use when needed by relevant parties. However, many IoT devices lack robust security implementations due to their constrained computational resources, limited power, and minimal memory, which make it challenging to support traditional security protocols. This affects the confidentiality of transmitted data, integrity of system functions, and continuous availability of services, especially under potential attacks or failures. In high-stakes environments such as banking, even minor breaches can lead to severe financial and operational consequences.

This project aims to address the gap by designing secure, resilient, and scalable architecture that leverages the CIA triad to safeguard IoT driven smart environments. Some of the technologies to be adopted in this project include LoRaWAN for securely sending data from end devices to the database, Firebase for data storage, The Things Stack for node management, MQTT as the protocol over which the data will be sent to the LoRaWAN gateway, AES 128-bit and end-to-end encryption for confidentiality, OTPs for authentication and hashing functions for integrity as well as GSM connectivity for availability as a secondary network. Through the practical lens of a bank monitoring system, the project will showcase how a carefully engineered combination of sensors, microcontrollers, and secure communication protocols can uphold the security principles essential to any IoT deployment. The project will be done using ESP32 and Arduino MKR GSM 1400 microcontrollers, with software written in C++ for the embedded firmware and will feature sensors such as the DHT11, ultrasonic sensors, LDRs and buzzers among others. Using Kotlin and Android Studio, an Android mobile application will be developed to interact with the system and test the real-time transmission verifying the real-time transmission, accuracy, and secure access of sensor data to demonstrate how CIA principles can be pragmatically enforced in IoT systems. For the project methodology, it will involve delving into various literature on IoT technologies, networks and security mechanisms employes in IoT deployments, assessing the challenges and vulnerabilities as well as the existing solutions to IoT security and their relevant gaps. To develop and implement the solution, prototyping methodology focusing on evolutionary prototyping will be used since prototyping speeds up the development life cycle and act as milestones showing progress and relevant advancements in the project. The evolutionary method supports reuse of previous prototypes thus saving on time and allows refinement throughout the development phase.

## Authors 
"CIA-Triad-Oriented Security Architecture for Mission Critical IoT Environments: A Bank Monitoring Case Study" was undertaken by Arnold Ochieng' for CNS 4101: CNS Project II at Strathmore University in 2025. For any questions or additional information about this project, contact the author.
- [Arnold Ochieng'](https://github.com/arnold7800x3d)